- [Instructor] So now we will implement
the demo for cookies.
We've already seen what we are going to do.
So this is our searchResults.jsp
where we had displayed all the products.
And that's the form tag.
So what we are going to do is,
whenever the user clicks on add to cart button
we are going to reach a servlet.
We are going to set up the entire session management
using cookies.
And then, we work it out to see
whether the changes take effect.
Okay, so the first step for this is
we have to write a servlet class for session management.
So, if you see, there is this products servlet class
that I've already written out in the form of a template.
Of course this extends the HttpServlet
and I've annotated it with a URL pattern
of addProducts on line number 11.
The next step will be to get the HTTPSession object
on the HTTPServletRequest API.
So, as we discussed in the previous video,
if we need to entirely set up the session,
the session ID, and it has to get exchanged
between the client and the server,
we need the HTTPSession object inside the code.
So, let's do that.
I'm going to say HTTPSession which comes from,
of course, javax.servlet.http package.
And, take a reference for it
and on the request object, you will get this session.
Right.
The next step will be to create a list
of products for the user cart
and keep adding selected product name to the list.
So, the cart that we are going to build for the user
is basically going to be as an arraylist
and that arraylist we are going
to create right now, like this,
using the code java API.
So, for simplicity, I am just going to put
in the name of the product to this list
rather than putting the entire product object.
So, I'm going to say list cart equal to new ArrayList.
Right.
The next thing is you will have
to add the selected product name to the list.
That's right.
So, whenever the user clicks on the active cart button,
the user is going to come in this method
so, we are going to check the product name
and add it quickly to this cart.
So, this is like adding the item to the cart.
So, let's quickly do that.
I'm going to check if request.getParameter
the name of the field, of course,
if that value is not null.
Then, what I have to do is I have to take the cart
and add that name quickly to the cart.
So, I have to take this again from line number 29
and paste it as an argument on line number 30.
Right.
Next is you will have to set that list
to the session object as an attribute.
Right.
So, that's exactly what we want to do
in this session management demo.
We want to take that cart and we want
to track it through the session.
So, we are going to go ahead and do one more thing here.
We say, session
.setAttribute
and attributes are always in the form
of a key and value pair
so, I'm going to give a key.
The name is your choice
and the value will be this entire cart object
that we have created.
Right.
Once this is done, now we have to do a couple of things.
One is we have to write the size
of the cart back to the client
and also have to display the search results
against that search criteria.
Right.
There are quite a lot of things to do.
Now, before we actually get to that point
there's one more thing.
Whenever the user clicks on the active cart button
it's going to come in this method.
Right.
It essentially means that whenever the user comes here,
we cannot create a new ArrayList.
If we do that, then we are going
to lose the previous cart information.
So what we have to do is this list or this cart
that we are picking up has to be picked up
from the session itself.
So, I'm going to modify line number 26
and I'm going to say session.getAttribute cart.
Let it come from the session itself.
Now, this returns you something of the object type
so I'm going to cast it quickly to ArrayList.
Right.
Now, there are two cases here.
One, when the user comes in with the first product.
That time, this cart is not going to exist.
That time, this cart will be null.
So, even if you try to fetch it
from the session it will still be null.
So, let's put a safe check there.
Let's say, if the cart is going to be null
then, we are going to instantiate
that cart to a new array list.
Right.
So, the code on lines number 28 to 30 is a safe check
that if you do not get a cart at all,
which means the user is coming for the first time,
only then we create a new ArrayList.
In all the other subsequent requests
to add products to the cart,
we will pick up the cart from the session itself
like we did on line number 26.
Right.
Okay.
So, now we need to go back to the client,
display the cart size, display the search results.
Now, understand this bit as well.
The search results were retrieved
in the SearchServlet class.
Right now, I am under the ProductsServlet.
I do not have the search results with me.
So, we are going to do that work around
to get the search results again.
How do we do that?
Let's look at that bit.
Let's go to SearchServlet.
On line number 28, I'm going to take the request object,
get the session object on it, like that,
and I'm going to set an attribute
inside the sessions code which is the search string.
The search string is basically that we procure
from the text box of the search that user enters.
Right.
So I'm going to take that and set it as a value here.
Why have I done this?
So that I get this attribute back
and call the DAO again to get the search results.
So, we look at it patiently.
Now, right on line number 28,
we've just set the search criteria
as an attribute and request code.
Now, let's go back to ProductServlet.
Let me come here
and let me get that search criteria
that I set in the SearchServlet.
So, on line number 42, I'm going to say
string search equal to session
.getAttribute
search.
So now, by doing this, I'm actually fetching
the search criteria which I set in the session.
This is going to return me something of type object.
So, business as usual.
I will have to cast it to a string value.
Now, once I do this, I will call the application DAO again.
On line number 46, I'm going to create an instance
of ApplicationDao.
And, I'm going to call the searchProducts method
of that Dao and I'll pass that search string
that I have with me.
The output of this will be the entire list
of product objects.
So, we have already done this
in our search use case earlier in one of our videos.
Great.
So now, we have been able to get the search results again
and we'll be able to display that one the page.
But, please understand, this is just a work around.
In your actual live industry project,
you may want to maintain the search results in a caching API
because that's what you will do.
The caching is going to hold a lot of data
because if you try to order the database
for every single call then, it is going
to be a very tedious process
and it'll pull down the performance.
So, in a project in the industry,
we generally keep these search results in a cache.
Alright?
So this is just a work around.
Okay, now that we have the search results,
we'll quickly set the search results
to the request object as an attribute.
Let's do that.
So, I'm going to come here, down.
And I'm going to take the request object
and I'm going to say setAttribute
and set the entire products data
as an attribute in the request code.
Good.
And the last thing, we now need
to go back to the searchResults.jsp
to display the cart size and the products data.
So, I'm going to do that.
I'll say request
.getRequestDispatcher.
So, we know this API by now.
I'm just going to forward the control to searchResults.jsp.
And, once I do that, I have to invoke the forward API
along with a request and the response objects.
That's all.
Right.
So, our session management code is entirely ready with us.
The last step will be
to add form element attributes on page.
Right.
So, let's go to the JSP now, searchResults.jsp.
We need to add these couple of attributes
to the form element on line number 47.
So, I'm going to say action is the URL pattern
of the ProductsServlet.
Let's go there.
And quickly copy from line number 17
and paste it to line number 47.
And the method that you would opt for
is the get method
because all of the implementation
that we have done is inside the do get method.
Right.
Another thing is we need
to display the items in cart, right?
So, now we are going to do that using scriptlet element.
So, on line number 29, I'm now going
to start a scriptlet element,
but I'm going to do a check.
I will say if
session.getAttribute,
cart,
is not null,
what am I going to do?
I'm going to take that cart and display the size here.
Okay.
So, let's go ahead and eliminate this
and put an expression element instead.
And, let's take this from line number 29,
come here down,
put a crown pair of brackets.
Now, please understand this thing.
When I say session.getAttribute
it will return you something of type object.
You need to cast it to an ArrayList
and after that, we can invoke the size API on it.
Right.
So, I'm going to do that.
This is ArrayList
and that's the value that we have.
So, this casting is done.
Now, over this, I'm going to invoke the size API.
Great.
Right.
Additionally, let's also do one more thing.
I'm going to take this entire expression element evaluation
that we have done
and assign this to the title attribute of the span element.
Why do I need this?
Because when I mouse over that span element,
I should be able to see the names
of the products that I had.
Okay.
So, let's go ahead and do this.
So, this time, we don't want the size.
We only want the product names.
So, this will be all.
Right.
Let's complete that if condition.
So, that's java code which means I will have
to begin a new scriptlet element and close that condition.
And, also, let's put an else condition there
which is generating the span element
with the same ID.
But, this time, the items in cart will be zero.
Right.
And I also need another scriptlet again
to close that ends condition.
There we go.
So, we have checked the cart from the session.
If there is a cart and it's not null
then, we are going to quickly display the size
in the form of items to cart.
And, if we don't get anything then, we are just going
to put the items in cart as zero.
Right.
Yes, so we have done all the changes.
Let's go ahead now, run this project,
and see whether it works.
Yeah, so I am on my index page.
I'll click on the search hyperlink
and search for a product.
I get the products.
Now I want to click on add to cart.
There you go.
Items in cart is now one.
Good.
Now, let's add another product.
Items in cart is two.
Items in cart is three.
So, you know,
this entire item's data we are tracking
by the session management process.
If I just go over and mouse over, you see,
I get all the product names listed there.
So, that's how you implement session management,
the cookies way.
In the next video, we'll see the video for URL rewriting.